{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s17\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01*;}{\levelnumbers;}}
{\listname ;}\listid-2}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-2\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}
\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }}\ls1}}{\info{\title Careware}{\author john doe}{\operator Paul Lutus}{\creatim\yr1998\mo10\dy18\hr22\min19}{\revtim\yr1998\mo10\dy18\hr22\min19}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords588}{\nofchars3352}{\*\company  }
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale122\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs72 The Careware Idea
\par }{\fs28 
\par }{\i\fs20 (adapted from }{\field{\*\fldinst {\i\fs20  HYPERLINK http://www.arachnoid.com/careware }{\i\fs20 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000002200000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00610072006100630068006e006f00690064002e0063006f006d002f00630061007200650077006100720065000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b4400000068007400740070003a00
2f002f007700770077002e00610072006100630068006e006f00690064002e0063006f006d002f00630061007200650077006100720065000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 http://www.arachnoid.com/careware}}}{\i\fs20 )
\par 
\par }\pard \li2880\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\i\fs20 I never saw a wild thing
\par Sorry for itself.
\par A small bird will drop frozen dead
\par From a bough
\par Without ever having felt sorry for itself.}{\i\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \li5040\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\i\fs20 -- D. H. Lawrence
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par Even though this page has a big, impressive title, it is about a simple idea which I hope I can convey in a few words. Here are the main points:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs20 
Economic principles lie behind many more human activities than most of us realize. We are almost constantly exchanging something for something else. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs20 
Many economic transactions don't involve money. In traditional societies, and sometimes even this one, people trade using favors, influence, even pure ideas, instead of money.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs20 Sometimes money is not t
he best way to convey value. }{\i\fs20 And sometimes money is so completely inappropriate that it destroys the transaction}{\fs20 . CareWare is one of those transactions.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs20 
CareWare doesn't involve money, but it is a transaction nevertheless. Something is delivered, something
 is received. Adam Smith's invisible economic hand moves through the CareWare economy just like everywhere else. I can't ask for something more than I am giving, but I can ask for an appropriate exchange. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\fs20 
\par In CareWare, the "buyer" gets something of value 
in exchange for something the "seller" wants. And what does the seller want? The general answer is "Anything except money," but I prefer the really remarkable transactions, which you recognize instinctively when you see them.
\par 
\par Here is an example -- here is
 a hypothetical transaction between myself and you. I have a program called "Arachnophilia" which is a rather nice Web page editor and workshop, but I don't want your money in exchange, I want something else. So I say "This is what I am offering, and here
 
is what I want in return." Simple, right? I have been doing this for a little while now, and the responses have been very interesting. Many people think I have religious beliefs -- I don't, at least not religious beliefs recognizable by a person of normal
 intellectual gifts. Others try to push the transaction in a more traditional direction for one reason or another -- I recently received this message:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\li720\ri1440\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\i\fs20 Careware, eh? A small price to pay for such a great software package. My pen quivers over my checkbook in case you change your mind. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\fs20 
\par This response could arise from any number of causes, and bartering about the }{\i\fs20 medium}{\fs20  as well as the }{\i\fs20 size}{\fs20 
 of the payment is a normal part of economic transactions, so maybe I am picking on this particular correspondent a little. But the funny part is CareWare is by no means a small price to pay.
\par 
\par For example, here is a payment I will accept for a copy of Arachnophilia \endash 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20 To own Arachnophilia, I ask that you stop whining about how hard your life is, at least for a while. When Americans whine, nearly everybody else in the world laughs. We have so much, and yet we manage to:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls1\adjustright {\b\fs20 
Overlook great examples of beauty around us,
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls1\adjustright {\b\fs20 
Miss our most important opportunities, 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls1\adjustright {\b\fs20 
Manage to make ourselves miserable by expecting something even better to come along. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid {
Every time we whine about how tough we have it, apart from the fact that we look ridiculous, we make it harder for people around us to appreciate how much we have. We encourage people to overlook the things we do have, the gifts of man and natu
re. We provide a context to dismiss everything as not good enough, to be miserable in the midst of plenty.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 
\par Don't get the wrong impression -- many things are unjust, things that should be struggled against until they are made right. My complaint is with pe
ople who can't find even one thing to take joy in, to appreciate. These people not only make themselves miserable, but they infect others with the attitude that the world should right itself, by itself, before they will take simple pleasure in anything.

\par 
\par S
o here is my deal: stop whining for an hour, a day, a week, your choice, and you will have earned your copy of Arachnophilia. Say encouraging words to young people, make them feel welcome on the planet Earth (many do not). Show by example that we don't ne
ed all we have in order to be happy and productive.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Paul Lutus, Port Hadlock, Washington
\par 
\par }}